#summary Describes how to use pyvol in a generic class project or contest.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

One of the goals of pyvol is to allow class projects, contests, and other comparisons of different volatility estimation approaches. This page describes how to use pyvol in such a framework.

<wiki:toc max_depth="5" />

= For contestants =

If you are entering a pyvol contest, you should do the following:

== Developing Your Estimators ==

To develop your own estimators:

 1. Download pyvol from the [http://code.google.com/p/pyvol/downloads/list downloads].
   * You generally want the most recent version which ends in .zip (i.e., the source distribution).
 1. Unzip the source distribution and take a look at {{{pyvol/est/CovEst.py}}}.
   * This module contains the basic API for vol estimation used by pyvol.
 1. Create a new python file in {{{pyvol/experimental/MyCovEst.py}}} for your estimators.
 1. Write your own vol estimator in {{{pyvol/experimental/MyCovEst.py}}} by subclassing {{{pyvol.est.CovEst.CovEstimator}}} and overriding the Estimate method.
   * You can look in {{{pyvol.experimental.ExampleEstimators}}} for an example.
   * You should not change anything outside the experimental directory as discussed in more detail [GenericContest#Important_Points below].
 1. Edit {{{pyvol.est.BestEstimator.MakeEstimator}}} to produce an instance of your estimator.
 1. In the main pyvol directory, do "python setup.py test" to test your edits.
   * This will test all the code and at the end, do a test of the estimator in {{{pyvol.est.BestEstimator.MakeEstimator}}}.
   * If you set {{{MakeEstimator}}} properly, this will show the performance of your estimator.

 1. To submit your estimator as an entry in the contest, 

== Submitting Your Estimators ==

Once you have tested your estimators and are ready to submit, do the following:

 1. Open a command prompt and enter the main pyvol directory that contains setup.py.
 1. Edit setup.py as follows:
    1. Set name = {{{"pyvol-<first_name>-<last_name>"}}} to distinguish your entry from others.
    1. Set the version if you like.
    1. Set the author and author_email fields to yourself or your team.
    1. Edit long_description to provide a description of your approach or point to other files documenting your approach.
 1. Do {{{"python setup.py sdist"}}} to create a zipped version of your project (this will appear in the dist subdirectory).
 1. Submit the resulting zip distribution as described by the contest organizer.

== Important Points ==

You should make sure that "python setup.py test" passes all tests before submitting. The contest organizer will either use this command (probably with a secretely chosen seed) or otherwise write a script to create an instance of your estimator via {{{pyvol.est.BestEstimator.MakeEstimator}}}, run it through simulations, and measure its performance.

Also, you should generally avoid modifying anything outside {{{pyvol/experimental}}}. The contest organizer will probably just extract the code in pyvol/experimental and use his own version of the contest framework. This is simpler for the organizer, makes it less likely that a rogue submission accidentally (or perhaps intetionally) circumvents the contest rules, and reduces the amount of code the contest organizer has to look at. This is worth pointing out again:
 *. *Anything outside pyvol/experimental will be ignored by the contest organizer*.



= Configuring pyvol for your own project or contest =

If you want to create your own contest, you can do the following:

 1. Download the source code for pyvol
 1. Edit as desired (e.g., setting default simulation parameters)
 1. Rename to {{{pyvol-<your-contenst-name>}}}
 1. Create a source distribution via {{{python setup.py sdist}}}
 1. Distribute the source distribution to contestants and use the above ways of running the contest.

Please let us know if you run a contest like that and we will link to it from here.

= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages